README.md, before:

# Check Web

[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/meedan/check-web.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/meedan/check-web/)

Verify breaking news online.

## Overview

This is the web client of [Check](https://github.com/meedan/check).

## Dependencies

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js") (tested with version 6.9.2) and [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/ "npm") modules as defined in [package.json]()
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/ "Download Ruby") and [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/ "RubyGems.org | your community gem host") (to run the tests)
* Optional: [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/ "Draw Freely | Inkscape") and [ImageMagick](https://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php "Convert, Edit, Or Compose Bitmap Images @ ImageMagick") (to generate the favicon)
* Optional: [Guard](https://github.com/guard/guard "GitHub - guard/guard: Guard is a command line tool to easily handle events on file system modifications."), [Guard-Livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload "GitHub - guard/guard-livereload: Guard::LiveReload automatically reload your browser when files are modified.") and the [LiveReload browser extension](http://livereload.com/extensions/) (for an autorefreshing browser in dev mode)

## Installation

#### With Docker

If you are just getting started, you probably want to install the full [Check](https://github.com/meedan/check) stack with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/ "Docker - Build, Ship, and Run Any App, Anywhere").

#### Using Dev mode

The dev mode build (`npm run build:dev`.) is intended to be used instead of the existing "full build" (`npm run build`) during local development. The dev mode reduces build time primarily by enabling webpack's `watch` feature, which uses caching and auto-rebuilding. It also disables sourcemaps by default.

* Run `npm run build:dev`.
* This runs the compiler. It monitors for changes, automatically triggering a rebuild. Press Ctrl+C to stop.
* The script is defined in [package.json]() — it uses both [gulp](http://gulpjs.com/ "gulp.js") and [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/ "webpack module bundler")

*Dev mode with LiveReload*

In dev mode can optionally use [guard-livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload) for cross-browser live-reloading, as configured in `check-web/Guardfile`.

* Run `npm run build:dev` per above.
* Install the [LiveReload browser extension](http://livereload.com/extensions/)
* Install Guard and Guard-livereload gems with bundler: `bundle install`
* Run guard: `cd check-app/check-web && bundle exec guard`
* Open localhost:3333 and turn on the browser extension (click it).
* You should see "Browser connected" in the Guard window.
* When you save a .js file, build:dev rebuilds, then Guard notices the new bundle and triggers LiveReload. The page automatically refreshes and reflects your js changes.

#### Installation without Docker

* Copy `config.js.example` to `config.js` and define your runtime configurations
* Copy `config-build.js.example` to `config-build.js` and define your build-time configurations (optional)
* Copy `config-server.js.example` to `config-server.js` and define your server configurations
* `npm install`
* `npm run build`
* `SERVER_PORT=3333 npm run publish` (which basically serves the contents from `build/web`)
* Open your browser and go to http://localhost:3333
* For better debugging, set your `NODE_ENV` environment variable to `development` instead of `production`.

## Localization

Translations are managed in [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/meedan/check-2/). All the contents are stored in the `localization` directory which contains the following subfolders:

* `localization/react-intl`: Contains the files extracted by `babel-plugin-react-intl` (localizable strings)
* `localization/transifex`: Contains the files above, but converted to Transifex JSON format
* `localization/translations`: Contains the translations files downloaded from Transifex in JavaScript format

By default, the application is displayed in the browser's language using the files from `localization` directory.

### Adding a new language

Copy `config-build.js.example` to `config-build.js` (if you don't have it yet) and add your Transifex user and password.

Then you can use `npm run transifex:upload` and `npm run transifex:download` to upload and download translations, respectively.

## Testing

#### Integration tests

*Running*

* Compile the code with `npm run build`
* Copy `test/config.yml.example` to `test/config.yml` and set the configurations
* Copy `test/config.js.example` to `test/config.js` and set the configurations
* Start `chromedriver` and the application (`SERVER_PORT=3333 npm run publish`)
* Run `npm run test:integration`

*Writing*

* Use API calls (instead of using Selenium) to create all test data you need _before_ the real thing that the test is testing
* Tag the test with one of the existing tags

#### Unit tests

* Run `npm run test:unit`

#### Missing tests

If you don't have time to implement an integration test for your feature, please add a pending test for that, like this:

```ruby
it "should do whatever my feature expects" do
  skip("Needs to be implemented")
end
```

In order to implement a pending unit test, do this:

```javascript
it("should do whatever my unit expects");
```

## Notes and tips

* Run `npm install babel-register -g` if you face errors related to `babel-register`
* Remove your `node_modules` directory if you face errors related to `npm install`

Commit message:

Upgrade node (#555)
* dev env: update base image to node:12.16.1-buster

This leads to a few changes:

* package-lock.json! WOO-HOO! [refs #8090]
* nix docker-entrypoint.sh. (Docker "ENTRYPOINT" means something else.)
* gulpfile.babel.js: upgrade to Gulp 4. (Gulp 3 fails on Node 12.)
* package.json: new "serve:dev" command (Webpack dev mode + publish)
* scripts/server.js: split app into new "server-app.js" file and use
  Node-style require()/module.exports. Lets us run "serve:dev" from
  gulpfile.
* Dockerfile: RUN "npm install && npm run serve:dev". This does the
  sensible command by default. (Savvy developers can still run
  `docker-compose exec web npm run build:web` if they want; but with
  this default command, the next edit of a file will trigger Webpack's
  watcher and dev-mode JS will be built.)

* Fix gulpfile for travis

* rename production directory

* rename dockerfile

* Travis: Node 12.16.1

Disable `node_modules/` cache, for now.

* redo dockerfiles

* Move to Passenger Standalone, Upgrade Node, Cleanup Dockerfile

Co-authored-by: Mohamed El-Sawy <melsawy.be7eri@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Karim Ratib <karim.ratib@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Caio Almeida <caiosba@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Adam Hooper <adam@adamhooper.com>

README.md, after:

# Check Web

[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/meedan/check-web.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/meedan/check-web/)

Verify breaking news online.

## Overview

This is the web client of [Check](https://github.com/meedan/check).

## Dependencies

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js") (tested with version 6.9.2) and [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/ "npm") modules as defined in [package.json]()
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/ "Download Ruby") and [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/ "RubyGems.org | your community gem host") (to run the tests)
* Optional: [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/ "Draw Freely | Inkscape") and [ImageMagick](https://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php "Convert, Edit, Or Compose Bitmap Images @ ImageMagick") (to generate the favicon)
* Optional: [Guard](https://github.com/guard/guard "GitHub - guard/guard: Guard is a command line tool to easily handle events on file system modifications."), [Guard-Livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload "GitHub - guard/guard-livereload: Guard::LiveReload automatically reload your browser when files are modified.") and the [LiveReload browser extension](http://livereload.com/extensions/) (for an autorefreshing browser in dev mode)

## Installation

#### With Docker

If you are just getting started, you probably want to install the full [Check](https://github.com/meedan/check) stack with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/ "Docker - Build, Ship, and Run Any App, Anywhere").

The full Check environment will install Node packages into an invisible
`node_modules/` directory. Instead of using `npm run ...`, run
`docker-compose exec web npm run ...` to run in the Docker container: the
Docker container can see the `node_modules/` directory.

#### Using Dev mode

The dev mode build (`npm run build:dev`.) is intended to be used instead of the existing "full build" (`npm run build`) during local development. The dev mode reduces build time primarily by enabling webpack's `watch` feature, which uses caching and auto-rebuilding. It also disables sourcemaps by default.

* Run `npm run build:dev`.
* This runs the compiler. It monitors for changes, automatically triggering a rebuild. Press Ctrl+C to stop.
* The script is defined in [package.json]() — it uses both [gulp](http://gulpjs.com/ "gulp.js") and [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/ "webpack module bundler")

*Dev mode with LiveReload*

In dev mode can optionally use [guard-livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload) for cross-browser live-reloading, as configured in `check-web/Guardfile`.

* Run `npm run build:dev` per above.
* Install the [LiveReload browser extension](http://livereload.com/extensions/)
* Install Guard and Guard-livereload gems with bundler: `bundle install`
* Run guard: `cd check-app/check-web && bundle exec guard`
* Open localhost:3333 and turn on the browser extension (click it).
* You should see "Browser connected" in the Guard window.
* When you save a .js file, build:dev rebuilds, then Guard notices the new bundle and triggers LiveReload. The page automatically refreshes and reflects your js changes.

#### Installation without Docker

* Copy `config.js.example` to `config.js` and define your runtime configurations
* Copy `config-build.js.example` to `config-build.js` and define your build-time configurations (optional)
* Copy `config-server.js.example` to `config-server.js` and define your server configurations
* `npm install`
* `npm run build`
* `SERVER_PORT=3333 npm run publish` (which basically serves the contents from `build/web`)
* Open your browser and go to http://localhost:3333
* For better debugging, set your `NODE_ENV` environment variable to `development` instead of `production`.

## Localization

Translations are managed in [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/meedan/check-2/). All the contents are stored in the `localization` directory which contains the following subfolders:

* `localization/react-intl`: Contains the files extracted by `babel-plugin-react-intl` (localizable strings)
* `localization/transifex`: Contains the files above, but converted to Transifex JSON format
* `localization/translations`: Contains the translations files downloaded from Transifex in JavaScript format

By default, the application is displayed in the browser's language using the files from `localization` directory.

### Adding a new language

Copy `config-build.js.example` to `config-build.js` (if you don't have it yet) and add your Transifex user and password.

Then you can use `npm run transifex:upload` and `npm run transifex:download` to upload and download translations, respectively.

## Developing

### Maintaining `package-lock.json`

If running within Docker, run
`docker-compose exec web npm install [--save-dev] MODULE [...]`. This will
overwrite `package-lock.json`. Commit and deploy `package-lock.json` alongside
any change to `package.json`.

## Testing

#### Integration tests

*Running*

* Compile the code with `npm run build`
* Copy `test/config.yml.example` to `test/config.yml` and set the configurations
* Copy `test/config.js.example` to `test/config.js` and set the configurations
* Start `chromedriver` and the application (`SERVER_PORT=3333 npm run publish`)
* Run `npm run test:integration`

*Writing*

* Use API calls (instead of using Selenium) to create all test data you need _before_ the real thing that the test is testing
* Tag the test with one of the existing tags

#### Unit tests

* Run `npm run test:unit`

#### Missing tests

If you don't have time to implement an integration test for your feature, please add a pending test for that, like this:

```ruby
it "should do whatever my feature expects" do
  skip("Needs to be implemented")
end
```

In order to implement a pending unit test, do this:

```javascript
it("should do whatever my unit expects");
```

## Notes and tips

* Run `npm install babel-register -g` if you face errors related to `babel-register`
* Remove your `node_modules` directory if you face errors related to `npm install`
